# Prediction of Energy Consumption in Buildings using Neural Networks 


Predicting the energy consumption in buildings plays an important role in reducing energy use in the building sector. To understand how a building uses energy, a model and simulation of the building’s energy consumption is necessary; such model includes the use of artificial intelligence. In the following term project, a prediction of energy consumption in buildings is studied based on an artificial Neural Network (NN) approach. NN has become an important and efficient method to study large building energy data. The purpose of the project is to analyze the energy consumption of a building using NN to be able to identify possible energy efficient measures (EEM) to reduce energy consumption in the building and help the environment by reducing overall energy demands; hence, reducing CO2 emissions. 
A NN is composed of a connection of elements/neurons. To transform the input data within the network, the model uses connection weights of neuron. To understand connection weights, it is important to understand the composition of a NN: an input signal, the corresponding weight of the incoming signal, the bias which is associated with the storage of information, and the output. Within a NN there are several layers. As an input signal enters the input layer or a node, it passes to the next hidden layer which applies transformation to the input data. In the hidden layers, the signal gets multiplied by a weight value before entering the next node. The information in the NN is stored in the form of weight and bias. The weighted sum is the output of the node, and the output of the node is calculated using the activation function, which helps determine the behavior or output of a node. Therefore, signals are passed from node to node using the activation function. 
An example of a building energy consumption model with input signals such as dry bulb temperature, solar radiation, number of days, exterior air temperature and humidity, and/or number of occupants can help determine the energy usage of a specific building, as an output signal. To represent the energy use of different units in the building, a hidden layer with different neurons is used; such neurons can represent the Heating, Ventilation and Air conditioning system (HVAC) unit, the lightning, and appliances. 
Training methods are used in NN to find a set of connection weights to best map inputs to outputs for a particular application, after the input, hidden and output layers in the NN model are determined. To start the training in a NN model, the weights are initialized with inputs from training data, then the output is compared with the correct or desired output and the error is calculated to modify the weights so that the error reduced for all training data. Additional research is investigated to help develop an adequate model for building energy consumption applications.
